Good morning everyone.
Hope you're enjoying
the conference so far.
My name is Sean Gies.
I'm one of the video engineers in
the QuickTime team and I'd like
to welcome you to our session on
High Performance Video in Mac OS X Tiger.
So I see we've got some
pretty good turnout here.
You'll be glad to know we're going
to be talking about a lot of the same
things we covered last year at WWDC.
So not going to miss anything.
We're also going to try to answer
a lot of the questions that we've
been receiving over the past year.
So hope you enjoy.
So before we get started
in the new video pipeline,
let's talk about where
video was before Tiger.
So this is our old rendering model.
You see we have Quicktime,
the Image Compression Manager,
and Codecs.
They were all talking through Quickdraw.
And in the APIs,
that would be the Graphport
and the G-World and so forth.
That worked pretty well.
But it wasn't quite optimal.
So this transfer codec was introduced.
Now, this is a sneaky codec.
It could see that G-World and go,
I can do better.
I'll talk directly to the
hardware and get that video to
the screen a little bit faster,
maybe support more native YCVCR pixel
formats than you would have had
through the G-World normally.
And this gave you a
little more performance.
Unfortunately, it's not too flexible.
The video would go straight to the
graphics hardware and there wasn't really
a way for your application to get in
there and do interesting things with it.
So we realized we had
to redesign this a bit.
And when we did so, we had some goals.
One of which was we needed to have
very good integration with OpenGL.
Now OpenGL is our connection
to the graphics hardware.
And it's how we can take advantage
of those new graphics processors
and all the programmability and
just raw horsepower available.
So that was one thing.
We also wanted to have it to
be layered on top of Quartz.
And this was sort of a way to
not marry QuickTime to OpenGL,
you know, kind of how the way it's
been married to QuickDraw.
And it gives us another
layer that you can hook into.
This is where things like Core Video and
Core Image technologies are.
It allows QuickTime to
leverage those as well.
Now we also wanted support
for multiple buffers.
This was another important problem
with the old model where a codec would
be decompressing into this buffer and
before it could start the next frame,
it had to wait for the graphics
hardware to go and download all
those pixels onto the graphics card.
And there's this dead time in
between where the codec could not
begin doing work on the next frame.
So that was the thing we had to clear up.
And architecturally,
we want to separate the decoding of
video from the presentation of video.
Now this is really where we allow
your applications to hook in,
in between there.
So in the old model,
when the codecs were finished
decompressing the data,
well those pixels were
already on the screen.
I mean there was nowhere for you
to get in there and interrupt.
So here's sort of a logical
view of this new pipeline.
So we have QuickTime on
top sitting on Quartz,
which is core graphics,
core image and core video,
all of which talk through OpenGL to
get to the graphics hardware.
So how about a little more
dynamic view of this pipeline,
a little more useful?
So you got the movie,
which has your video frames,
and you have some graphics
hardware you need to get that to.
So QuickTime provides the video
and we use OpenGL to render
to the graphics hardware.
So how do we get the
frames out of that movie?
Well, we've introduced a new construct
called a Visual Context.
Now this is like a tap into
the movie through which you
can extract video frames.
And you'll notice here there's this gap.
We need to bridge the QuickTime APIs,
which are rather high level,
over to the OpenGL APIs.
They're completely different
styles of programming.
So this is where we've
introduced Core Video.
It connects these two
very different worlds.
And it provides timing services so you
know when to draw and buffering services
which contain what you're going to draw.
And in this gap you can
continue to fill in things.
So we have a place where
your application can hook in.
You can do additional
OpenGL transformations or you
can pull in Core Image and do,
you know, crazy effects.
Now these things are optional.
This is where you can do whatever
you want and it doesn't need to be
there if your application is just,
you know, playing back video simply.
So what does this give us?
Well, there's a couple facets to
the performance enhancements.
You have more pipelining.
This is where the CPU has been freed
up so the codec can be working at
the same time that the graphics
hardware is downloading pixels.
So this becomes relative,
or actually very important for
high definition video where
you have a lot more pixels.
And the compression technology
takes a lot more time to compute.
And because it's high definition
and there's so much more video,
well that dead time while it's uploading
that video becomes even more important.
The other facet has to do with
taking advantage of that GPU.
So now that we have
OpenGL under the hood,
under QuickTime,
it becomes very easy to leverage the
GPU and do things like color sync,
do color matching in real time,
adding filters and effects to the video,
or just fun new things that
weren't really possible before.
So, I realize there's a class of
applications who merely want
to play back video efficiently.
They want to play back that high
definition H.264 clip without
dropping frames on the floor.
And for that, it's very easy.
Cocoa developers, if you adopt QtKit,
you can use the QtMovieView object.
Carbon developers,
if you've adopted the high level toolbox,
you can use H.I.MovieView.
Now both of these views are implemented
to use the new video pipeline.
So it's going to take advantage
of OpenGL and the GPU and
all that kind of stuff.
And it's pretty much free.
With Cocoa,
you can do this stuff in Interface
Builder and have it playing
back without writing any code.
So, back to our diagram.
The view basically takes
care of everything here.
You give it a movie,
it does all the work of
pulling out the frames,
dealing with the timing,
managing buffers and then drawing
them to the screen for you.
So with that,
I'd like to have a little demo showing
you how QuickTime Player is doing this.
Demo 1 please.
All right,
so I'm going to open a movie here.
This is an H.264 clip.
It is 960 by 540.
So QuickTime Player is a
Cocoa application now and it
is merely a client of the Qt
MovieView object that I just mentioned.
So QuickTime Player has no idea how
that video is getting to the screen,
it's just relying on the
MovieView to do it for it.
And we have this great
new live resizing feature.
Now, the interesting thing here,
compared to before,
the codec has no idea that I'm
changing the size of this window.
It continues to decode frames at its
native resolution very efficiently.
Whereas in the old model,
every time you needed
to resize the video,
you tore down the codec chain,
reinitialized it to decompress at the
new size and that was a lot of overhead.
Now, only OpenGL knows that we
need to change the size of
this to surface on the screen.
And the codec just carries on
doing everything in real time.
So we also have Color Sync
being used here.
Now this video is tagged with the
information that describes the high
definition TV color profile and our
display has been calibrated for the
characteristics of this display and we're
getting Color Sync for free and it's
all being color matched in real time.
Now, since we're using the GPU,
we can do a few other things.
Here's a little script that
makes this easier for me,
which takes that movie and
creates a new one from it.
This movie is the same
but it has two tracks now.
It's that same clip
but below and flipped.
So this work of compositing the
video is happening on the GPU.
It has two streams of video frames coming
in and we have an off-screen buffer
on the graphics card into which we're
rendering these two streams of video.
And it's all happening in real
time and again the view doesn't
really know it's happening,
it's just you get these larger
textures out of the movie.
And as well, on top of that,
we're using the GPU to do other
operations like these video controls
where we're changing the color,
saturation, contrast, tint, all that.
And this is not affecting our CPU at
all because all the work is being
done on that graphics processor.
It's basically get that for free.
And any application that you use QtKit,
you're going to get this behavior,
you know, out of the box.
These APIs are public,
you can tell the movie, you know,
be twice as bright.
All right, so that was a demo.
QuickTime Player using QtKit.
Back to the slides, please.
All right,
so not all applications want to merely
play video in a rectangle on the screen.
Maybe you want to do some
additional video processing.
You want to apply some
effects to that video,
make it look cool.
Or maybe you want to draw additional
elements on top of the video.
Or maybe it's the inverse of that.
Maybe you have other drawing elements,
and you want the video to be something
embedded in that larger scene.
Well, you can't use the view to do this.
You're going to have to
implement some of its behavior.
You're going to have to learn
OpenGL or Core Image and
do that rendering yourself.
And on hardware that can't support this,
you're going to have to fall
back to the G World case
So, let me show you a few
examples of this working.
Back to demo one please.
So this is an application
I showed last year.
And the point of this is to
show that we're using OpenGL.
Got that same movie.
It's continuing to be
composited in real time.
And these OpenGL transformations
are trivial.
You're just rotating this thing around.
And to really showcase the
horsepower of these GPUs,
showing how much video we
can render at the same time.
So you can have quite a few frames there.
So instead of just rendering a frame and
then releasing it to be recycled later,
this application holds on to a
few frames and continues to render
them over and over and over.
And you get an interesting effect.
I mean, you can see.
You can,
I think I have about 30 frames here.
Playing back, no problem.
So these graphics processors
have a whole lot of horsepower.
The other application you may
have seen in the previous session
this week is this jigsaw puzzle.
So I have a high definition clip here.
I believe this is a
1280 by 720 progressive.
So, it's a little jigsaw puzzle,
and this was relatively easy to write.
The most difficult part was, you know,
making those shapes,
but I'd like to explain
what's going on here.
So,
we have the video playing to a texture,
or really a series of textures,
and every time I get a new texture,
I have to draw this whole
puzzle from scratch.
So, for each piece, I have a mask.
It's a little grayscale image that
is the shape of the puzzle piece.
And first, I render that using core image
to get that shadow effect.
It's being run through a Gaussian blur
filter of a radius of maybe two or so.
And then,
I take that same mask and I draw the
video and the mask simultaneously to
cut out a piece of the video and draw
it on top of where that shadow was,
and just repeat that
process for every piece.
And you know, it's quite, you know,
it's an interesting effect.
So the gratuitous little cute demo.
Okay.
And if this is going to work,
I hope it does.
So we got here some live video
coming off this i80c camera here.
So instead of using a movie as a source,
I'm using a sequence grabber to get
this video off of the camera and run
it through the exact same code that
was doing all that rendering before.
So, live video, movies,
all working through the
same video pipeline.
Alright.
Back to slides please.
Slides please.
All right,
so that just shows some of the fun new
things that really weren't possible
before with the old rendering pipeline.
So how does this work?
Well, the view's not going to help you.
That's right out.
So you have to get underneath this
thing and figure out what is it doing?
How is it getting those
frames to the screen?
And how can you do that?
So first, you need a movie.
Now you may wonder why
this is about rendering.
We're opening a movie, OK.
There's an interesting new semantic
that we've introduced that is
important to video rendering when
it comes to opening your movie.
We've added an API called
newMovieFromProperties.
And it's a replacement for all
the other new movie calls that
are available in QuickTime.
I don't know, all 10, 12,
how many there are.
And you use this API by specifying
a list of properties that
describe how to open the movie.
Maybe you're telling it open from a file,
or open from a URL,
or open from a handle, or data reference.
And you can also supply options,
like I want this movie
to be active immediately,
or allow it to download progressively
and continue asynchronously.
But the important thing here is
that the movie will not necessarily
inherit the current G world as is
the case with all the other calls.
That was a very subtle side effect of
all the other ones is that upon creation
the movie would be ready to start drawing
to that G world that would happen to be
active at the time you created the movie.
So with this new call you
can specify a visual context
at creation time and the movie will
go there instead of to the G world.
Now if you're using QtKit,
the QtMovie class will be using
this under the hood so you don't
need to worry about it there.
So you got the movie.
Now you need a visual context
so you can get those frames out.
First, what's a visual context?
Well, this is our abstract rendering
destination for QuickTime movies.
And it's our replacement for the G world.
One of the biggest differences between
Visual Context and the G World as far
as writing your code is concerned is
that your application is now responsible
for getting those pixels to the screen.
When you use the G World,
you just told the movie,
render to this G World and it
did all the work of getting
those pixels to the screen.
When you use a Visual Context,
you merely get a frame of video out and
it's up to you to get it to the screen.
Now this is more responsibility but
it lets you do all those interesting
things and it gives us the advantages
of the GPU and so you can take advantage
of all that horsepower down there.
It enables us to have multiple
buffers in flight so the codec
is no longer constrained,
you know, waiting for the upload before
it can start the next decode.
And it's not restricted to
certain types of movies for
playback to an OpenGL texture.
We've talked about some previous
techniques for doing this and they were
typically limited to single track video.
So you can have a bunch of video
media pieces of content but this
is not supposed to be restricted.
This will work with, you know,
multi-track movies as we've
seen here in the demo.
It'll work with different types
of media so you don't need
to worry about that anymore.
It gives you more asynchronous
processing so this is,
you know, I talked about before,
the codec can continue working while
you're rendering with the processor,
the graphics processor.
So how do you create one?
We have this API,
QT OpenGL Texture Context Create,
and it will create you a type of visual
context through which you can pull out
OpenGL textures for the video frames.
Now obviously you're going
to need OpenGL to use this.
So you're going to need the
CGL context and the CGL pixel format.
Now these are the core OpenGL API types.
And unless you're doing only full screen
or only off screen OpenGL rendering,
you're probably going to be talking
to OpenGL through Cocoa or Carbon.
Now Cocoa uses the NSOpenGL objects
and Carbon you'll be using AGL.
Both of these have ways to get the
underlying core OpenGL objects,
which you will give to QuickTime.
Now it's important to note that this
call can fail if one of your displays
does not support Quartz Extreme.
So you've got to be prepared for
this and possibly fall back to
using G-Worlds if you need to
continue to support that hardware.
So you have the Visual Context,
you have the movie,
you need to connect them.
So that's what
setMovieVisualContext is for.
It's the replacement for setMovieGWorld.
And quite simply, it points that movie
at the visual context.
Now, a visual context can only have
one movie connected to it.
So you've got to be careful of that.
It'll fail if a different movie is
already connected to that visual context.
So it's important that
you can disconnect them.
And I want to point this out.
Calling setMovieVisualContext with a null
pointer as the visual context parameter,
it's an important semantic
for disconnecting a movie
from a visual context.
And also, similar to the new movie calls,
there is a difference here
compared to setMovieGWorld.
setMovieGWorld,
when you passed it null for the GWorld,
it didn't mean don't render anywhere.
It meant go take the current GWorld and
start rendering there instead.
So the visual context call is different,
where passing no will cause
the movie to stop rendering.
Now it's important that you use
this when you maybe have to switch
the movie to start using a G World.
Just calling setMovieGWorld won't
necessarily disconnect the movie from the
Visual Context for compatibility reasons.
So it's important that if you
do that and you want to make
sure that movie is disconnected,
you pass null to setMovieVisualContext.
Okay, so they're connected.
Now you need to get those images out.
These are where these three APIs come in.
So the visual context
is kind of a pull model.
You ask it,
is there a new frame available for
this time using that first API there?
Is new image available?
And then if that returns true,
you'll move on to the next one,
copy image for time.
And you'll probably pass it the same time
stamp as you asked in the first call.
And then you get the image out
and you can render as you will.
And when you're done, after rendering,
you need to call these
visual context task call.
Now this allows the visual context
to do some housekeeping work,
recycle resources, reclaim buffers,
all that kind of thing.
And due to threading issues,
it's important that you call this
while you have OpenGL locked and
protected from other threads.
So, you might wonder,
where do I get the timestamps and when
do I call those functions and what do
these buffers look like that I get out?
This is where Core Video comes into play.
So let's talk about
Core Video for a little bit.
So it provides buffer
services and timing services.
So this is how we can
bridge the gap between a
QuickTime Visual Context and OpenGL,
where you have buffer objects
that speak both languages.
And it allows us to
connect those two things.
And it deals with all the ugly details
under the hood of managing buffers and
managing their connections to OpenGL and
basically all the things you have to do
to make the video playback efficient.
And also, it deals with timing.
So it's going to be telling
you when you need to draw.
And it's kind of analogous
to the Core Audio model,
where the audio hardware is
telling you when it needs samples.
Core Video will tell you when
you need to draw video frames.
So about the buffers.
Core Video buffers are core
foundation based objects.
So they have the same retain and release
semantics of the rest of core foundation.
And there's sort of a hierarchy
of classes for the buffers.
At the top there's CVBuffer,
just kind of an abstract class.
And with this you can have
attachments on the buffers.
Now attachments can be anything you want.
They're just a CF type.
Think of it as like a dictionary
of stuff that's on the buffer.
Examples might be the timestamp of the
buffer or the color space of the buffer,
things like that.
And you can put anything
you want on there yourself,
custom data.
That's at the CvBuffer level.
The next thing in the
hierarchy is CvImageBuffer.
Now this is specific to images
and you'll find things like the
dimensions of the image here.
And all of the Visual Context
APIs that deal with Core Video buffers,
they'll be using the CvImageBuffer type.
Now in reality there are
multiple types of image buffers.
Like here we have the Pixel Buffer,
the OpenGL Texture and the OpenGL Buffer.
For now let's talk about
the OpenGL Texture.
This is a simple, I shouldn't say simple,
it's a wrapper around an OpenGL Texture.
And it does all the dirty work
of managing the memory mappings
and recycling textures and
memory and all that stuff.
And if you speak OpenGL,
you know about texture
targets and texture names.
And if you can get the
texture target names,
you can get the texture
targets and texture names.
You can get the name out of this thing,
you can render that texture
using OpenGL directly.
And to do that,
you're going to need texture coordinates.
And there's an API we recommend you use,
OpenGL Texture Get Clean Text Cords.
Now we recommend that over just getting
the size of the image and going from
zero to whatever width and height.
So timing,
this is where the Core Video display
link comes into play.
The display link is an object that helps
you drive that visual context pull model,
where it's giving you
the callbacks to say,
if you start drawing right
now and you hurry up,
your pixels will get on the
screen in exactly 25 milliseconds.
So it's going to give you that
time stamp that you pass to the
visual context to query if there
are new textures available,
and then to get that texture out.
And it does this on a
dedicated I/O thread.
And because a computer can
support multiple displays,
you'll need to keep that
display link synchronized with--
with the current display that
the video is being played on.
So there's a call to do that.
So once you have these buffers,
you need to render them.
Well,
there's two obvious choices off the bat.
You have Core Image and you have OpenGL.
With Core Image,
it might not be accelerated.
I think not be available
is the wrong word.
Might not be accelerated.
And since we're talking about live video,
maybe that's the same thing.
and with Core Image you get
built-in color matching.
So all that color sync work,
that's basically free if
you render with Core Image.
And effects are downright trivial.
It's easy.
You can do it in one line of code.
Long line,
but one line of code can take that
image and apply a crazy filter to it.
and it supports all the usual
video transformations and
compositions and things like that.
So that's the easy way.
You can also use OpenGL.
Now if you go this route,
you can have broader hardware support.
You don't need to worry whether the
graphics has fragment programmability.
You can render without that.
And it could be more efficient if
you know exactly what you need to
render and how you want to render it.
Unfortunately,
it's going to be a bit more code
to write than using Core Image.
So color management.
Many of you are probably
familiar with gamma.
And dealing with gamma in video
has been an issue for a long time.
And that's just a small piece
of the color management puzzle.
There are more aspects to images
and video than just the gamma curve.
There's like the chromacities of red,
green, and blue.
The red on your display might
be different from the red
that the camera recorded.
So color management is
how we solve this issue.
And applications have been describing
in the movie file the characteristics
of this video for a while now.
And there's a document we have
that describes how you can put
this information in your video
if you're capturing video.
When you get the frames
out of the Visual Context,
they're going to have a color
profile attached to them.
And this color profile
describes that source video,
its color characteristics.
And when you render that
video using Core Image,
it'll have some color profiles
that describe the destination
and a working color space.
So the color is going to
be transformed for you.
The Visual Context is a couple
APIs for describing how you
want these colors to be managed.
It's very analogous to the
Core Image model where you have a
working color space in which the
pixels are manipulated and an output
color space in which everything is
eventually matched to for the display.
That's typically going to
be the calibrated display
profile for your monitor.
And again,
very little code is required for this.
You just need to get the display profile,
give it the core image,
and then just draw the buffers
and they're color managed for you.
So I'm going to be showing
you some sample code.
Now this is really sort of a best
practices example of how to render
using the new video pipeline.
And it uses QtKit, but not for rendering.
It uses the QtMovie class
to manage that movie,
to call movies tasks when necessary,
and deal with opening the movie
and all that kind of stuff.
And it does the rendering
in one of three ways.
It uses OpenGL directly and
if Core Image is accelerated,
it'll use that to get
the color management.
And if the hardware does
not support Quartz Extreme,
we're going to fall
back to using GWorlds.
So let's walk through the
code for a little bit.
Demo 1 please.
So this example has been recently
posted to the ADC or WWDC website,
so you can follow along if you have it.
So I'm going to walk through the
different stages of the pipeline
that I talked about earlier.
The first one being movie creation.
Now I'm using QtKit so this is trivial.
I just call the initWithFileRoutine
and QtKit creates that using that
new movie from Properties Call under
the hood and it's all easy.
Then here I tell the
movie to start looping.
Okay, so that's movie creation.
Now, creating the Visual Context.
There's basically three steps here.
The first is to create OpenGL objects.
So we use the NSOpenGLPixel format
and the NSOpenGLContext to do that.
And from those,
I get the underlying core OpenGL objects.
See the CGLContext and
the CGLPixel format.
I stash those away because I use
them quite frequently in the code.
Then I create the display
link and the visual context.
You see here I pass the CGL context
and CGL pixel format to that
visual context creation call.
So now I have the display link for
the timing and I have the visual
context so I can pull buffers out.
Well, what does that callback look like?
Sorry, before that,
we need to connect it to the movie.
So my view class will provide the
visual context that it created
to the controller object here.
And the controller gets the movie
from the document and simply
calls setMovieVisualContext.
And that's it.
You see all the other boilerplate code
here for calling back to G-Worlds.
You should look at that if you're
interested in how to write a
robust video rendering app here.
Okay, so at some point you need to kick
off that display link to get it
started so it's going to start calling
you every display refresh time.
The lock focus call is a good
place to hook in to do that.
This is called right before the
view is about to start rendering.
So we'll make sure if we
haven't been connected yet,
let's do so.
So we connect the OpenGL context,
get the display link set up,
provide it our callback function,
get it updated to the current display
that our view is rendering to,
and then call start.
And once we call start,
it's going to begin giving
us those callbacks every,
well on this machine,
60 times a second because
I have this LCD here.
All right.
Now in that callback is where
we do the meat of our rendering.
And here's the little algorithm that
we use to drive the visual context.
The first thing we do is we
ask the visual context if
a new image is available.
And here we just pass it the
time stamp that we got from
that display link callback.
And when that returns true, we move on,
release any old buffers that we had
pulled out of the visual context,
and then get a new one out of
it with copy image for time,
passing it that same output time stamp.
And that gives us a
CV OpenGL texture object.
And I'll stash that away in my class
and then move on to the rendering step.
So, rendering.
I'm not going to get into details
here because Frank later will have
some more tutorials that will show
you different ways of rendering.
So I want to call out a few details here.
This is the render function.
And you'll notice here that I check
to see that our texture is not null.
Now, this is subtle,
but a Visual Context may return a success
code when you call copy image for time,
but it'll give you a null pointer.
This is completely valid and you had
better expect it because that just
means there is no video for that time.
Maybe there was video and then
to get you to stop rendering it,
it has to tell you, okay,
now start rendering nothing.
So you have to be prepared for that.
And in this case, when we encounter that,
I just clear the buffer using OpenGL.
At the end, when we're done drawing,
we call the flush buffer method
to get that data onto the screen.
And then I call the task routine.
And I do it here because we still
have our OpenGL locks taken,
so no other threads are going to be
messing with OpenGL at this point.
And it's a good time to
do this housekeeping work.
So that's pretty much it.
Those are the important
points of this application.
There's a lot more code in here dealing
with resizing and all that fun stuff.
But it's a very simple application.
Just renders the video.
And that's it.
Back to slides.
So there's a few more uses
of visual context that I'd
like to go over real quick.
The Image Compression Manager can
drive visual context also.
And you don't have to necessarily
connect the visual context to a movie.
You can connect it to an
ICM decompression session.
Now this is what I did in the jigsaw
puzzle where I had the live video going.
I had a sequence grabber.
I was pulling frames down.
And I was feeding them through
the decompression session,
which itself was connected
to that visual context.
So the rendering code had no idea
where the video was coming from.
It was just doing the
visual context work.
And I connected it through this
API to that decompression session.
Oh, and there's a session after this,
you know, 2 o'clock,
on using those new APIs and
decompression sessions and so forth.
So, CVPixelBuffer.
This is another core video buffer
that I didn't talk about earlier.
I'll just focus on the
OpenGL texture for a moment.
But this is where you have
memory-based pixel data.
So this is equivalent to having like a
pixmap in the previous rendering model.
So now it's a reference-counted
buffer object.
And it's used heavily internally
by QuickTime for all of the
decompression session work.
And it's really the foundation
for our multi-buffer
ACM APIs and allows us to have,
you know,
one pixel buffer being mapped to the
hardware while we're decompressing
into another pixel buffer elsewhere.
Sometimes you may want to get these out
of the movie instead of OpenGL Textures.
Maybe you just want to do, you know,
CPU processing on those buffers.
Well,
you can do QTPixelBufferContextCreate and
it will give you also a Visual Context.
But this one will not
give you OpenGL Textures.
It will give you CVPixelBufferObjects.
And from there you can get
the base address and the pixel
format and do whatever you want.
And it's useful for things that
don't need the GPU to work.
Maybe you're doing offline rendering
or you're just extracting video.
Now you can--to this API you
can pass options to say,
"I want specific pixel formats,"
or "I want a specific dimension for
this pixel buffer," and it'll work.
If you don't pass any options here,
you'll get whatever the native
size is of the movie video.
And with that, I want to hand it over to
Frank who's going to talk more about
rendering and using Core Image.
Thank you, Sean.
Welcome to sunny California.
That worked better in the rehearsal.
Okay, we are talking a little
bit now about Core Image.
My name is Frank Doepke and
I'm actually showing you some
of the rendering effects that
Sean already introduced a little bit.
You've seen the pipeline,
same slide as we had already last year,
and we're going on to
some of the more details.
So let's start first with
the core image part of it.
So what does Core Image bring us as
an addition to our playback scenario?
So we get over a hundred effects
right out of the box from Tiger and
already developers are writing
additional image units which even
provides us even with more filter.
We get very fast processing of
these filters right on the GPU.
So you can do fancy effects
and it doesn't tax your CPU.
What you need to learn is basically
how do we get from the CV image buffers
that we get from QuickTime through
Core Video and put them into CI image.
So I will show you that part.
And the same is true like how do
we get the CI context which is our
rendering target for Core Image.
One thing that is important
to know here is that you can
chain these filters together.
So right now we've just seen, okay,
we use one filter for
the color correction,
but I can do multiple effects and then
put them together into one pipeline.
And you want to chain them together
because these chains can fold
together in one pixel program.
So if you haven't been at the
Core Image session yesterday,
you will actually see that there is
an advantage in Core Image built in
that it lazily evaluates these filters
and therefore computes a very small
program out of a longer filter chain
to make the rendering more efficient.
So the sample code that we want
to look at is the CIVDU Demo GL.
I call it episode two because
it's actually a slightly
different version that you've
seen already on your Tiger disk.
So we show the integration
Core Image going through
Core Video and OpenGL and QuickTime.
We actually look at how we create the
CI context from our NSOpenGL context.
And we use the CI image from
CvImageBuffer API to really get our
frames from QuickTime into Core Image.
Last year, for those who have been here,
we showed mostly to
use image with texture.
This is still a valid API call,
but I would like you not to use it for
this case as it has some drawbacks.
It can go into technical details
in the lab if you want to stop by.
So also show you how to create a
filter pipeline as already mentioned.
We'll use multiple filters on that video
and then we also use some compositing
effects to draw on top of our video and
I will show you how to do that as well.
So with this I would like
to go to the demo machine.
So here we have our CI Video Demo GL.
And before I actually
show too much of the code,
I will actually show you what
this application really can do.
I'll run it in just a second.
Okay.
So here I have some video.
It's not running in this moment.
I can scrub through it.
It's a very short clip.
You will see that clip quite a
bit more in the afternoon as well.
And I have a zoom blur effect
which I can move around.
As you can see right here and I can
set how much of a zoom blur I want
and I can even take it completely out.
So this is kind of my zoom blur.
And I can do this while
the clip is playing.
You can see this.
And I change the zoom blur.
This is all running live.
Same as I can do with-- we showed that
we can do some color correction as well.
So if I say, well, I want this a little
bit brighter or darker,
saturation nicely in.
And now we have a very, well,
psychedelic scene here.
So this is, in short,
what this application can do.
Now let's have a look at the code,
actually, how we did this.
First part, as I said, okay,
we need to create a CI context.
And I've do this in the
prepare for OpenGL of my view.
So when you look at it,
we again set up our display link.
And we need to look at basically
the amount of displays that we have,
set our display link up, and I have some,
I set up my output callback.
I'm ready for rendering
on this kind of part now.
The second part that I'm going to
need to look at is... Actually,
sorry, I need to go a little
bit more on top here.
How do I set up the context
for the CI drawing itself?
So I have my CGL context and
I create a CI context from it.
I set up the color space which is
important for the rendering part as
we mentioned already that CI will
do the color correction for you.
And then I set up a bunch of filters.
So I used the color control filter
which is the one that does all the hue,
saturation,
brightness control and I used the
CI Zoom Blur that was the fancy
effect that I put on top of it.
So I don't set all the values
on the Zoomer right here.
So what I'm doing actually is I use
set defaults to make sure that all the
parameters of my filter are at least
initialized to something sensible.
So that is now everything set up.
How do we do the rendering
part of the filter?
Well, that is very simple.
The callback that actually like
Sean already showed that actually now
will render these frames coming from
QuickTime will simply go in... Oops,
this is actually in the wrong space.
Provide me with a CV image buffer and
I create a CI image from it by simply
using Image with CV Image Buffer.
So now from this buffer,
I get my rectangle.
So this is really the frame size coming
out of QuickTime that I wanted to use.
Then I run my color correction on it.
And now the output of this
color correction I use as the
input to my effect filter,
which was the zoom blur.
And then I draw, last but not least,
my image to the screen.
And you can see that I'm using
here the image rectangle that I got
out before I applied the filter.
So like the zoom draw,
you can imagine this actually
makes the image much bigger
because it zooms outside.
But I really only want to render
like the original frame size.
So that's why I had to get the
actual extent from the original
frame and then render really just
using this as my source rectangle.
The other part that I can show you
here is how do I actually use my
"So I have simply an event handler
and while I'm playing back,
again I have to make sure that I'm
actually locking my OpenGL context here,
I can change the parameter of my filter.
So this is the effect filter.
This is how I'm doing the zoom part
and moving it around with the mouse.
But it's simply changing the
input center as that is my target.
The next part for that,
actually I want to go quickly back
into like running the application,
is like actually how
do I get my stuff back?
So we've seen how we render and then
can bring everything back to the screen.
But we often get the question, OK,
screen is not the only target.
I want to get stuff
back from my graphics.
So for this,
let's go quickly back to slides and
I'll talk a little bit about that.
Can we go to slides, please?
So how do I get the
stuff back from the GPU?
There are two ways that
I want to talk about.
The first part is when
I'm using Core Image,
I can ask the CI context,
the Core Image context,
to bring back a CG image.
And this is good so I can write
the CG image out to disk or just
render it as a thumbnail and some
views that I need in my application.
So this is very easy and it's good
if you just want to use CG image.
If you want to read
back what's on the GPU,
now let's say I do actually some stuff
on top of my Core Image rendering
and I'm using OpenGL on top of it.
So there's a way how I can read
back these pixels from the graphics
card and do something with it.
So that's what GL Read Pixels is doing.
This is not also,
now for those who are a little
bit more familiar with OpenGL,
they say, oh, GL ReadPixel,
that's old stuff.
There's a more advanced way of doing it.
It's just a little bit more complicated.
And for those who are interested,
please go to the Maximizing
OpenGL Performance session that
is on Thursday at 2 o'clock.
And there you can see a little
bit more fancier ways how to
read back pixels from the GPU.
So we'll go back into our CI Video Demo
GL and we have a look at how we can use
Core Image together with Image I/O to
write the stuff out to a file.
And when we just look
at the OpenGL Context,
we'll actually use the
GL Read Pixels part,
read the pixels from the graphics card,
and then we use movie export from
procedures to export what we've just
rendered into a QuickTime movie.
And with this, I would like to go back
to the demo machine.
So let me pick a little
bit more nicer frame here.
OK.
Move my zoomer.
And now what I can do is
simply save this frame.
And let me put this on the desktop.
"The main point here is my frame.
I can open it up in preview.
Now you see this is actually the full
size of the frame and I will show you in
code why this looks so much different.
But before I do that,
I'll also show you that we can
actually export this movie.
I have this little export button here.
Now I'm creating a movie.
I want to prepare for
internet and instead of H264,
let me just sort of time
constrain use actually DV.
So what I'm doing here is actually I'm
rendering the movie on the screen and
output it out into a QuickTime movie.
And there it's open.
This is now in the QuickTime player.
And I can play back my movie.
It has even some audio with it.
Okay, let's have a look back
into the code of this.
Okay.
So as I promised first,
it's very easy to just get
the CG image out of it.
I have my save panel,
where I'm simply asking the user, OK,
where do you want to store your image?
And then I have a URL.
And now what I can create
is a CG image destination.
And with the CG image
destination from URL,
I'm telling it I want to
use actually a JPEG here.
That is my target for file format.
When I have this destination,
all I need to do is,
on the CI context that I have, I ask it,
give me a CG image from my
effects builder pipeline,
which I have right here.
And I have this image,
which I simply add now to my destination.
I need to finalize it.
And that writes it out as a file.
So it's very simple.
I have now a JPEG file on disk.
The part that is slightly
different here is,
you can see that I'm really using
the extent of the final image.
In comparison to before,
where I actually used the extent of my
buffer that I'm getting from QuickTime,
I'm now actually using the
extent of the final rendering.
That's why you saw how
we have this zoom blur,
the really big image coming out of it.
The next part is, okay,
how did we do the movie export?
So for this,
we need to set up our export first.
So I create a QuickTime export component
and there will be more in other sessions.
I'm going a little bit fast on this now.
We set up the component and the crucial
part here is actually that we set up
two callbacks for the video track that
allows me to do the rendering part.
For the audio that we have in here,
I simply pass through the audio.
So I'm simply telling QuickTime, OK,
what is your standard behavior
of passing through the audio?
And that is what I'm doing right here,
since I'm just talking about
image parts and not audio.
Let the user change the settings.
That picks the compressor.
And now, I already mentioned that
I'm rendering on screen.
This is probably not a good
practice in your applications.
First of all,
you normally don't want to really
show what you're compressing on
screen and it has a slight downside.
The coordinate system that we use in
OpenGL is exactly flip-flop to the
one that we actually use in QuickTime.
So what I have to do is I have
to read back the pixels and
then flip them so that I'm not
rendering my movie upside down.
So I need two buffers.
I have hard coded here to 720 by 480
just because I'm a little bit lazy.
And then I have my first context in which
I'm actually reading back and then I'm
flipping my pixels so that I actually
have them in the QuickTime format.
Then I need to set up my
image description so that
actually QuickTime knows what
I'm really rendering here.
And then I call MovieExpress
from Procedures.
So it will now call in a tight loop for
every frame that it wants to render.
So let's look actually how
this frame callback looks like.
So it starts always by calling
me for each single frame.
And so this is running in a tight loop.
The part that's important is
we're dealing with core images.
It's using Objective-C code.
And so we definitely have a need
for creating an auto-release pool.
As we are doing this in a tight loop,
normally you would just release
your auto-release pool at
the end of an event loop,
which is not efficient enough
here because you do this over a
long period of time for multiple
frames and for each frame you will
accumulate some auto-released objects.
So you will mash up your memory
and you don't want to do that.
So it's important that you create an
auto-release pool around your rendering
that you do here in Core Image.
So that's why I set up one and
at the end of this call I simply
release this auto-release pool.
I'm now using the time that
gets passed into me and set
the movie point to this time.
I make sure that it really
renders and then I really
render my frame onto the screen.
As I said,
that's not probably the best behavior,
but this makes it a little bit
easier in this demo to show.
I render everything and now all I need
to do is I need to read it back.
I'll look into the read
back part in just a moment.
Now I have my pixels coming back from
the graphics card and as I mentioned,
I have to flip them and that's what
I'm just doing in this section here.
It's just a very simple flipping code.
And I can return my rendered pixels
into the parameters and that's all
I need to do actually in my movie
callback to do the rendering part.
So let's have a look
at the readback part.
Very scary OpenGL code.
It's just a few lines.
Make sure that we keep our state before.
Then we set up our memory layout and
all we need to call is GLReadPixels.
This reads it back from the
graphics card synchronously.
And then we clean up and we are done.
So we have our frame coming
back from the graphics card.
And that simply exports the whole movie.
Now there's one part that
I actually want to do a little bit
here to show you how easy it is
actually to deal with Core Image.
And I have my little cheat sheet here.
The version that you already have on your
disks shows actually a little bit more.
It shows already a time
code on top of your video.
So let me show you actually
how I simply can add this.
So all that I need to do is
I need a composite filter.
This is my very first step.
And let me add this to my video view.
[Transcript missing]
And release my filter.
Let me do this right here.
And the last part is now
in the rendering part,
I simply need to chain this
into my current rendering part.
So I'm doing this here,
and I go back to my filter rendering.
And at the very end of it,
before I actually draw,
I will add my filter.
So I'm using the composite filter.
The output of the effect filter
is now my real background image.
And then on top of it,
I put a timecode image.
And I have already prepared
that a little bit up front.
So we have this timecode overlay from
which I'm getting another CI image.
And so this is simply
put on top of it now.
Now, instead of using the
output of my effect filter,
I'm using my composite filter
here and draw that image.
Now, let's hope that everything
works fine and let's run this.
It doesn't want to save.
Okay.
And there you can see I have now a
timecode track right on top of my screen.
And this is how simple I can render
with Core Image.
OK, let's go back to slides, please.
Thank you.
Now we talk about OpenGL as the other
way of rendering VCD onto the screen.
The first part is, okay,
where we are in our pipeline,
we've seen the Core Image part
and now we talk about our OpenGL.
So we can do transformation
and also the rendering part.
First thing when we talk
about OpenGL is shop safety.
Wear your threat safety glasses.
OpenGL contexts are not reentrant safe,
so you have to deal
with threat safety here.
Now I'm just giving you three examples
of like how to actually do this.
You can use the Pthread logs,
which I'm doing in some of
the sample code already.
And you can also see that we can use
a shared OpenGL context to get around
some of the threat safety issues.
And as you saw already in Sean's demo,
there's in Tiger a new API which
I really recommend to use also.
It's the CGL log context
and CGL unlock context.
Those are some of the calls that you can
use to make your context threat safe.
You also need to do this whenever
you talk to the Visual Context,
the Qt OpenGL Texture Context.
Although you can actually use
IsNewMovieTextureAvailable
outside of this lock because
that one is actually thread safe.
So you can check outside of
your locking if you actually
have a new frame available.
And if you use AppKit and
you use the NSOpenGL view,
there's one thing that
you need to keep in mind.
There's an update call which you need to
subclass and actually make sure that you
put locks before and after you call super
update as there's some OpenGL code being
executed within AppKit on this part.
Now even more about threat safety,
there's a very nice tool called
the OpenGL Profiler and with
the WWDC disk that you got,
there's a new version of it with the
developer tools which really works great
and it helps you a lot because you can
set breakpoints on threat safety issues
which allows you to catch the threat
safety before your machine goes downhill.
And you can see more about this
also again in the Maximizing
OpenGL Performance session.
So we look again now at
our live video mixer.
Again,
the same stuff as we've seen last year,
but slightly refined.
First part that we did,
so we updated everything to
the latest APIs that we are
really shipping in Tiger.
And we've also improved a
little bit our timings that
the movies really run in sync.
Because we really play three
movies into one surface,
and the movies you will see is like one
video shot from different camera angles.
And that's what we will render in OpenGL.
And we simply use OpenGL here,
no Core Image,
just to do all the rendering
effects and the compositing.
There's something new in the
sample code that I will show you,
which is not available to you yet,
but will be available soon.
We use the AVC video services
to read back the frames and
put them out on FireWire.
So we again use GLReadPixels and then
we compress them using QuickTime and
use the DVFireWire output.
And this was worked with any kind
of even like the Core Image part.
So this session for this
was actually yesterday.
So you wish you knew
that already earlier,
but you can still go back on the
slides and get the information when
you look up for session 504 and
get the information what happens
there with the new FireWire SDK.
And with this, I would like to go back
to the demo machine.
Okay, let me show you the
live video mixer first,
what it does.
So I'm opening up three movies.
You can play them back.
I'd like to thank Ralph here
in the audience for the great
pool play that we have here.
So we can now mix this on top of
each other with semi-transparency,
this channel, I can use this channel.
And we can use some funny shapes.
I can position this movie
up in this corner over here.
This one I'm going to run into a bubble
and position this into the other corner.
Let's say the background I'm just
running through some fancy brush strokes.
So this is simply now running with
OpenGL and QuickTime and the new
part for it and therefore we have
this elaborate two camera setup here.
I'm now simply having one
FireWire camera here which I'm
actually running my output to.
And since this screen
is a little bit small,
I'm trying now to show you this
in my QuickTime movie recorder.
Hopefully it should show anything.
It does not want to do this now.
Bear with me.
We'll try this once more.
[Transcript missing]
It's now the small
display here of my camera.
You can see that's where
actually what I'm pointing at.
Make this a little bit better.
And now I can really move my video
around and change this back like,
okay, I don't want this brush
stroke in the background.
This is running on the full frame part.
I can change this to be a star.
And you can see up here in my camera
display that I'm actually really
playing this back out on the FireWire.
So let's have a look actually
how we did this in code.
So the key part that I just want
to point out here is so much how do
I really do the rendering in OpenGL.
And this actually reflects a little bit
back also to what we saw earlier with
the jigsaw puzzle where we use something
which is called multi-texturing,
where I actually use one texture as
a mask to really render my video.
So you saw that we actually have
the capability of running videos
through shapes or just as a major
part I can also do it without a shape,
just running it in plain.
So what I'm using here is actually
I'm setting up my blending of OpenGL.
I'm getting my textures.
And then I'm,
all what I'm using is actually I use the
color and you can see the opacity part.
That is giving me the capability
of actually running with a
different opacity of my video.
And all I have to do is now
render this texture on a quad,
my rectangle that I'm
actually rendering out.
When I want to use any of the shapes,
I need to set up the multi-texturing.
So I'm loading one texture
as the first texture target,
and the second texture as
the second texture target.
The first texture is actually my shape,
which is just a grayscale image
that I'm using as an alpha mask.
And those two together get rendered,
then you can see slightly more code.
[Transcript missing]
Now the next part that I needed
to do for the speech bubble was,
OK, I need something on top of it.
This was the white outline.
This is the shape here.
So I'm again using this,
the texture for that,
which is just a regular RGB texture,
and render this on one
quad on top of each other.
And OpenGL is compositing all these
steps on top of each other when I'm
rendering it out to the graphics card.
And that is actually how
I do the rendering in OpenGL.
So I will go back to slides, please.
So what did we use?
We used GL Blend together with
Alpha to get the opacity effect
that we had in the video.
Then we used the masking
with multi-textures.
That is actually giving us the
capability of stamping out video.
And then we look at the FireWire part.
I haven't showed you much in
code yet because my sample code
is not quite ready for you yet.
But we use again GLReadPixels to,
same way as I've done
in the movie export,
to read back from the graphics card.
I have to make sure that my coordinate
system is the right way around.
Then I compress it into
DV by using QuickTime,
just as a simple codec for this.
And then I can simply use the
AVC video services to render
this out through FireWire.
And the sample code will hopefully
be available soon for you so you can
all see which kind of tricks we used.
and now comes the part where hopefully
you don't get any X thrown at me.
There are problems and I need
to talk about those as well.
There are certain hardware limitations
that we have to deal with when we
talk about OpenGL and Core Image.
First of all, when you talk about OpenGL,
we have to have a Quartz Extreme capable
graphics hardware on all displays.
So if you found in your attic an old
H128 PCI card that takes the Quartz
Extreme capability available for
QuickTime in May simply from you,
you can't use those two together.
This is a limitation that
we have to deal with.
The other part is different graphics
cards can support different sizes
of actually the drawable surface
and even like the texture size.
So if you have some special
movies that are really,
really big,
you might actually have to resize those
down into the limitations that you
have to deal with the graphics card.
This will not hit most of you because
actually the graphics hardware is pretty
good that we have in our machines,
so you will not
necessarily run into this,
but it can be.
And when we talk about Core Image,
Core Image is always
available for you on Tiger.
Actually,
the live video mix that we saw will
run on Pantra as well with QuickTime 7.
But Core Image,
always available on Tiger.
But depending on the graphics hardware,
will run on the GPU or on the CPU.
And for a lot of the filter effects,
actually on the CPU,
will not get the real-time
performance as we've seen here.
And again,
I would like to point out threat safety.
With OpenGL, it's really an important
issue that you look out.
Make sure that all your access
to OpenGL is locked when you
render from multiple threats,
as we do here.
here.
So we've covered quite a bit today
and so let's just recapture a little
bit more what we really have as
an important message to you here.
So the first part,
we have our new rendering
architecture where QuickTime sits
on top of our Quartz layers,
Core Graphics, Core Image,
Core Video and then we render through
OpenGL into the graphics hardware.
We have the new video pipeline where
you can simply use the Qt Movie View or
the HI Movie View as the easiest
step when you just want to render
out video to the graphics hardware.
Or if you want to do your
own pipeline effects,
you simply can use the
Core Image and also the OpenGL part
to customize your frame pipeline.
More information,
you definitely find more on our website.
There's normally a lot
of documentation there,
sample code and all the other
resources like the iSchool
that was already pointed out.
Sessions.
Well, unfortunately we don't
have a time machine.
The FireWire session was yesterday,
but you still find the information.
Then I would like to point out
today afternoon Sam Bushel's
advanced video formats,
always very entertaining,
also very informative.
Where you see more about the export
and also the sequence grabber part.
Then we look into the color imaging part.
The color sync is also on
Wednesday afternoon and the
maximizing OpenGL performance part
is a lab also and is a session.
Feedback on Friday.
You can talk to us and we will
hopefully also listen to you.
And you can find us in the lab.
We have a graphics and media lab and
you can just go from here down the hall,
take a turn and there we are.
Sample code you've seen already
that we introduced the video viewer,
which was Sean's sample today.
We have the CIVideo Demo GL.
Watch out that this is a new version
that you have on the WWDC distribution.
Same goes for the live video mixer.
Then we have a new Visual Context sample
also from Sean that shows a little bit
more about how to use the Visual Context.
And we have two one-on-one sessions
actually that just get you going on
Core Video and the Core Image part.